So we added the geo location the possibility for users to auto locates themselves and it's working quite
nice and we also saw that it works on mobile devices which is of course the core idea behind as we tap
into real native API features.
And that's something I really want to highlight because it is important to understand and get right
here when we're locating ourselves in the browser.
We use a browser API.
The geo location API is provided in the browser to when we're doing this on the native devices here
we really tap into native device features.
So under the hood we use that capacitor bridge.
I was referring to earlier in this module on the slides.
So this is now not using a browser feature here but really a native device feature.
And this will become even clearer once we add the camera where once we try to access to camera.
So for that let's dive into a new core plug in and that would be the camera plug in capacitor offers
us now afforded.
Camera plug in to use it.
We first of all have to make sure that we again have all these permissions set up so let's dive into
the Android folder and there in the Android manifest.
And as we can see we should have these free permissions set.
Now if we have a look here we have these external storage permissions.
And regarding the camera we have that permission down there.
So nothing needs to be changed on Android on it.
ISIS if we go into the app app folder and then the info people list there we should set that end as
camera usage description key and if we have a look at the info list file we have it here.
So you can customize that message again.
But other than that nothing needs to be changed here.
Now in our app we need to change a lot though because right now we have no component that would allow
us to pick an image.
So it's time to create a new one.
Let's say I use the iconic C alive or dead and run ionic generate components and then when I create
that in my shared folder just as I created that location picker I'll created and shared pictures.
And now that will be my image picker.
So sitting next to that location picture component will be that image picker component.
And therefore now if we reload this here we see that image picker file.
Now how should that image picture work and look like.
Well it's pretty similar to our location picker.
I want to have a wrapping div.
I eventually want to show a review.
I want to have a button so I'll copy the code from there and move it in here.
And yes of course therefore you could think about refactoring this into a shared component if you wanted
to.
Now I should not really need a spinner here so let's get rid of that.
The image is definitely something I need though because I want to show a preview image.
I will not check for any loading state though but I will check and it will use a selected image which
eventually will be set as soon as we did choose an image.
And here of course I will trigger not on pick location but on pick image.
And of course the selected image property and the on pic image method here have to be added to this
component.
The class here will also just be image makes more sense to location image and other than that we're
almost fine for that.
I can on the button however I will use the camera I can instead of the map icon which should look nicer
and for the text of course I'll use take picture.
OK.
So these are the first steps.
Now let's move on to the typescript file and let's add that selected image property which should be
a string here which we're referring to in our template.
And of course let's add the on pic image method.
So here I'll add on pic image now on pic image should open the device camera and should utilize the
device camera.
But I also want to provide a fallback for cases where we don't have a camera let's say a browser or
a P.C. without a webcam or anything like that.
There you don't have a camera and therefore you want to provide some fallback.